Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans.  In humans , several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). 

COVID-19 disease is said to be the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus and this new virus and disease were unknown before the pandemic began in Wuhan , China , in December 2019. 

The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever , tiredness , and dry cough  ,aches and pains  , nasal congestion , runny nose , sore throat or diarrhea and these symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. Some people become infected but don’t develop any symptoms and don't feel unwell. Most people (about 80%) recover from the disease without needing special treatment. Around 1 out of every 6 people who gets COVID-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. Older people , and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure , heart problems or diabetes , are more likely to develop serious illness. People with fever , cough and difficulty breathing should seek medical attention.

Bats are considered natural hosts of these viruses yet several other species of animals are also known to be considered as sources of coronavirus . People can catch COVID-19 from others who have the virus and the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with COVID-19 coughs or exhales as these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person and other people then catch COVID-19 by touching these objects or surfaces , then touching their eyes , nose or mouth. This is why it is important to stay more than 1 meter (3 feet) away from a person who is sick. 

The risk of becoming prone to COVID-19 depends on where you  are - and more specifically , whether there is a COVID-19 spread unfolding there.For people living in , or visiting , these areas the risk of catching the virus is higher. Governments and health authorities are taking vigorous action every time a new case of COVID-19 is identified. Be sure to comply with any local restrictions on travel , movement or large gatherings. Cooperating with disease control efforts will reduce your risk of catching or spreading COVID-19.

The virus that causes COVID-19 is mainly transmitted through droplets generated when an infected person coughs , sneezes , or speaks and as these droplets are too heavy to hang in the air they quickly fall on floors or surfaces ,You can be infected by breathing in the virus if you are within 1 metre of a person who has COVID-19 , or by touching a contaminated surface and then touching your eyes , nose or mouth before washing your hands. 


It is not certain how long the coronavirus survives on surfaces , but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses and studies suggest that coronaviruses (including preliminary information on the COVID-19 virus) may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. This may vary under different conditions (e.g. type of surface , temperature or humidity of the environment).

To prevent infection and to slow transmission of COVID-19 do the following ,wash your hands regularly with soap and water or clean them with alcohol-based hand rub ,maintain at least 1 metre distance between you and people coughing or sneezing ,avoid touching your face ,cover your mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing ,stay home if you feel unwell ,refrain from smoking and other activities that weaken the lungs ,practice physical distancing by avoiding unnecessary travel staying away from large groups of people.


The first case of the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic in India was reported on 30 January 2020 , originating from China.In India the total number of confirmed cases as of 10 April 2020 is 6,412 cases , 504 recoveries (including 1 migration) and 199 deaths in the country.Experts suggest the number of infections could be much higher as India's testing rates are among the lowest in the world.

The consequences of the outbreak is that it has been declared an epidemic in more than a dozen states and union territories , where provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act , 1897 have been invoked , and educational institutions and many commercial establishments have been shut down and India has suspended all tourist visas , as a majority of the confirmed cases were linked to other countries and on 22 March 2020 , India observed a 14-hour voluntary public curfew at the instance of the prime minister Narendra Modi , The government followed it up with lockdowns in 75 districts where COVID cases had occurred as well as all major cities ,Further , on 24 March , the prime minister ordered a nationwide lockdown for 21 days , affecting the entire 1.3 billion population of India.

The World Health Organisation chief executive director of health emergencies programme Michael Ryan said that India had "tremendous capacity" to deal with the coronavirus outbreak and , as the second most populous country , will have enormous impact on the world's ability to deal with it . India could have witnessed about 31,000 cases of COVID-19 disease between March 24 and April 14 without lockdown,according to a study at Shiv Nadar University. 

On 12 January 2020 , the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed about the novel coronavirus was the cause of a respiratory illness in a cluster of people in Wuhan City , Hubei Province , China , which was reported to the WHO on 31 December 2019. 

The extended lockdowns as of now are as follows On 6 April , In Telangana , CM suggested that the Lockdown should be extended by two weeks after April 14.On 8 April , The Yogi government has ordered the hot spot areas of 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh to be completely sealed till April 15 ,On 9 April , the Government of Odisha extended the Lockdown in the state till April 30.

The PM CARES Fund was set up to provide relief to the affected people (the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund) on March 28,2020.Several large business groups contributed to the relief fund, including Tata Sons and Tata Trusts (₹1,500 crore), Wipro and Azim Premji Foundation (₹1,125 crore), Reliance Industries (₹500 crore) ONGC (₹300 crore) , Larsen & Toubro (₹150 crore) , Infosys (₹100 crore)Adani Group (₹100 crore) , JSW Group (₹100 crore), Vedanta Limited (₹101 crore) ,  ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India (₹100 crore) , ITC Limited (₹100 crore) and Bharti Enterprises (₹100 crore)

The total number of cases all around the world is 1,633,272  confirmed cases of the coronavirus COVID-19 and the death toll around the world is  97,601 deaths and recovered people number is 366,610 . 

The incubation period means the time between catching the virus and beginning to have symptoms of the disease and most estimates of the incubation period for COVID-19 range from 1-14 days , most commonly around five days. 

WHO recommends all countries to enhance their surveillance for severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) , to carefully review any unusual patterns of SARI or pneumonia cases and to notify WHO of any suspected or confirmed case of infection with novel coronavirus and countries are encouraged to continue strengthening their preparedness for health emergencies in line with the International Health Regulations (2005).

Antibiotics are not effective against COVID-19 viruses as antibiotics do  not  work  against  viruses ,  they  only  work  on bacterial infections ,  so antibiotics do not work ,thus antibiotics should not be used against COVID-19 virus,they  should  only  be  used  as directed  by  a physician to treat a bacterial infection.

If you are sick with COVID-19 symptoms (such as fever , cough , difficulty breathing , muscle pain or general weakness) , it is recommended that you contact your local healthcare services online or by telephone. If your healthcare provider believes there is a need for a laboratory test for the COVID-19 virus , he/she will inform you of the procedure to follow and advise where and how the test can be performed.


You should wear a mask only if you are with COVID-19 symptoms (especially coughing) or looking after someone who may have COVID-19. Disposable face mask can only be used once. If you are not ill or looking after someone who is ill then you are wasting a mask. There is a world-wide shortage of masks , so WHO urges people to use masks wisely.

The measures that are not effective against COVID-2019 and can be harmful are Smoking ,Wearing multiple masks ,Taking antibiotics ,Wandering outside in crowded places ,So STAY HOME AND STAY SAFE FROM CORONA!!!